---
slug: "/til/2025-10-07"
date: "2025-10-07"
title: "2025 10 07"
subtitle: "Logging what I learned daily"
---

## **10-07 TIL**

- Product Books
  - Recently Bought 6 Product books: Running Lean, Lean Analytics, Lean Product Playbook, Solving Product, Inspired, and Black Box Thinking
  - I wanted to give my PO, PM, UX Designers insights since they seem to stagnate at a certain level of expertise.
  - So after reading a half of them, I started lending those to people who I thought would be a good fit.
  - I also learned a lot. The most important bits I learned:
    - always solve the weakest assumption first - selling feasibility, building feasibility, etc.
    - Prototypes and Products should be differentiated. Prototypes usually take from 2 hours to a few days. MV-Products usually take from 2 days to 90 days.
    - MV-Product should include a full piece of the pie: functioanl, reliable, usable, emotional design (the full mvp pyramid)
  - It seems very obvious but was elusive when I was actually doing the job. It was probably because:
    - We, in nature, tend to close our eyes and run to build since we hate to face our ideas fall to ground.
    - It feels bothersome and stressful to create some mock product and to do interviews and surveys.
  - So basically, we should do PAINFUL THINGS to success. And looking back, I think my team could have done a lot better in many cases.
- After I thoroughly finish all the books, I should share my thoughts to my teammates...

- LLM & Agent Trend Ebook
  - I initiated a program for a couple of engineers (6 currently, including me) to write a book about LLM & Agent Tools Trends.
  - This is a side project to study + make profit out of.
  - Just built a landing page, and trying to see how people react to this.
  - Will try to sell even before starting the first chapter of the book.
