---
slug: "/til/2025-06-11"
date: "2025-06-11"
title: "Daily TIL Note 2025 06 11"
subtitle: "Logging what I learned daily"
---

## 06-11

### Presigned URL

- had to come up with dx-friendly & efficient way to send data between backend servers when file is stored in private GCP buckets.
- considering presigned url for internal data transfer between backend servers.

### MMMAC

- memo maniac - a new product I am thinking to launch maybe?
- i have hard time recording and backing up all my small memos i make everywhere (unclutter, raycast note, google doc etc.)
- trying to create a raycast extension or a separate app to write small notes at a time that is synced to all my cloud providers and local places.

### Frameworkds

I have read a couple books on consulting frameworks. I am thinking I can come up with some decision / thinking / execution frameworkds for development.

Developers have code itself as the framework for solving something, but often forget we should also meta-think to come up with efficient thinking/executing frameworks for our daily actions.

Some frameworks maybe?:

- a framework or process to never miss implementing backend api endpoints that should be included according to product design (maybe like actor diagram + uml + etc. would be preexisting frameoworks for this?)
- a framework to review PRs suuuper efficiently?
- a framework to streamline daily standups? (probably all those numerous medium articles on agile would be the preexiting framework.)

I feel like there’s a lot of inefficiency in my daily coding/planning habits, and I could go pretty far in streamlining them.
