---
slug: "/til/2025-06-03"
date: "2025-06-03"
title: "Daily TIL Note 2025 06 03"
subtitle: "Logging what I learned daily"
---

## 06-03

#### Blogging

- Realized I want to focus more on writing blogs in English. I'd rather go English first and translate content to Korean. Here are the reasons:
  - Writing stuff in Korean has low leverage due to number of audience on web.
  - I can practice writing in english.
  - If I would stay in Korea, I can still auto-translate my posts.

#### System DA

The problem:

- While programming, I often get interrupted by thoughts like, "I should check some stats to make sure the system is working properly" — for example, verifying that users are engaging with our new system and not running into issues.
- We do have a part-time DA, but there aren’t many streamlined dashboards on Redash (our DA tool), so checking these things isn’t always easy.

Action Plan:

- So I figured that it would be best to routinize system DA for me to check every morning.
- The goal is to automate most of this so our DA can also access it. For things that aren't easily visible (e.g., specific DB data), I’ll check manually for now(but streamlined by routines), and work on bringing them back to surface through DA tools long-term.

Did it work:

- We will see tomorrow.

#### Code Review

- Still figuring out the right balance between saving time vs reviewing everyone's code.
- No one in the company currently takes initiative to review everyone’s code.
- Currently I feel pressured to be the one to read everyone's code.
- I plan to review all codebases at least until I feel like it is impossible to continue.
