---
slug: "/til/2025-06-22"
date: "2025-06-22"
title: "2025 06 22"
subtitle: "Logging what I learned daily"
---

# TIL 21

## _Effective Software Testing_ is so much easier to read now.

- This book is by Mauricio Aniche
- 3 months ago, I had hard time reading this book
- After extensively implementing test cases for my repository(600+ test cases - mostly integration tests), now I realize I can read most of the chapters effortlessly.
- I am planning to write some posts (less important ones for now) for concepts that were still unfamiliar to me - mutant testing, design by contract, etc.

## _Hexagonal_, is it the only way to make my codebase testable?

- currently my repo is mostly CRUD layered architecture.
- it has 80% integration test 10% e2e and a very few unit tests.
- I feel like there is no other way than hexagonal architecture to completely escape from this "un-unit-testable" state.
- gpt says using aggregate root will make it easier to test... hmmm really? idk.

## RESTful

- Do we reeeally need to make APIs strictly restful?
- I still find so many cases where using verbs or non-nouns on route naming make representation much cleaner.
- Might need to read some extensive restful architecture books or articles.

# TIL 22

## _Onion Architecture_? _Clean Architecture TM_?

- Found some awesome architecture that is less heavier than Hexognal but can still make my company's codes more testable.
- There seems to be many articles on these topics.
- I will be able to write articles when I am super confident on those subjects!
- Planning on applying Onion or Clean to my actual company project.

- https://herbertograca.com/2017/11/16/explicit-architecture-01-ddd-hexagonal-onion-clean-cqrs-how-i-put-it-all-together/ => need to read this soon

## Nest js review

- Currently building a coffee menu ordering system with NestJS and noticing it allows quite a bit of flexibility. Feels like it inherits the spirit of Express.
- For example, unlike Spring, it doesn't force using DTOs in every layer and most things seem quite flexible.
- TypeORM seems significantly cleaner than Sequelize? Sequelize models look quite messy. Need to explore more though.
